Supply chains of LIB materials are characterized by highly global trade, with
energy-intensive activities related to ore extraction, processing, and refining
taking place across a wide range of locations globally (14). Key materials used
in a LIB include nickel, cobalt, manganese, graphite, and lithium. According to
Brown et al. (15), nickel is mined in more than 25 countries worldwide, however,
Indonesia and Russia are the largest nickel producers with 38 and 11%,
respectively; 63% of cobalt is extracted from the Democratic Republic of Congo;
manganese is mainly mined in South Africa (30%) and Australia (12%); 62% of
graphite is produced in China; and lithium is mainly mined in Australia (52%)
and South America (Chile 22%, Argentina 7%). However, LIB refining and
manufacturing are dominated by China. More than half of cobalt, graphite, and
lithium refining capacity is situated in China and the country produces over 75%
of all LIBs (16). Europe is responsible for âˆ¼10% of global LIB manufacturing but
is expected to increase its capacity to reach 25% by 2030. The United States has
6% of LIB production capacity, while Japan and South Korea together have 5%.
China's dominance is likely to remain through 2030 (12). However, the
geographical distribution of key battery materials is sufficiently diverse to
require detailed consideration of the multiple locations where each material is
mined and processed throughout the supply chain to derive the global-average
climate change impact of LIBs. Global-average impacts are important because they
reveal the current state of LIBs manufacturing, while keeping consistency with
previous studies. However, detailed emission factors for specific supply chains
become more important because they allow the quantification of current and
future energy and GHG emissions of battery manufacturing. Therefore, we must
consider specific locations where key activities are occurring today, how they
will shift in the future and the evolution of battery technologies over time.
